>> Shirley Wu: So that's a little
bit that I wanted to mention.
And the one last thing that I want to do,
this idea of a heat map.
And so,
what we have here is being able to do
a heat map by the genre on the y-axis and
the months on the x-axis,
and then colored by
how many movies are in there.
So the intensity of the colors would
be how many movies fall into that cell.
>> Speaker 2: My idea with
this was actually popularity.
>> Shirley Wu: Okay, good.
>> Speaker 2: Based on the meta votes,
the number of votes.
>> Shirley Wu: Let's keep
it a little bit simpler.
I think when we're doing exploration,
let's not reload it too much.
I think the simpler the better.
And then when we're designing,
we can pick and
choose what attributes are good and
then design around that.
But for this one, let's keep it simple.
So,
>> Shirley Wu: Yes,
>> Shirley Wu: For heat maps,
I haven't quite had a chance to
use them before, so hopefully it's
as straightforward as before But
let's look at this example together.
So I found an example on Vega-Lite.
And what it's telling me is
that it needs the data source.
This one has a title and
some configurations about,
I guess some of the axis or
the scales, but I think hopefully
we don't need to bother with that.
The important thing, it seems, is that for
a heat map, the mark is the rectangle,
which makes sense.
And then the x-axis,
they're using a date too.
They're using dates, but
they're making the dates
categorical instead of temporal so
that, I think, so
that they can bend by the date.
So for us,
let me start writing this down, actually.
This one is a heat map where
the x-axis is the month.
And then the y-axis for us is the genres.
>> Shirley Wu: [COUGH] And
let's do it this way.
So in terms of the x-axis with the months,
what we want to do is have a,
we still want to use the field,
>> Shirley Wu: That's the release date.
But in this case we can say time unit, and
that's another one of those things
in Vega-Lite that you can specify.
But we'll use time unit as month.
And then that goes together
with type ordinal.
>> Shirley Wu: So
that it knows to bucket by months.
Each of the cells are bucketed by months.
And if we want it to be fancy, and
this is a final visualization,
I think that's why they have the axes and
they're labeling it a specific way and
formatting a specific way.
But we're just trying to do exploration,
so we can probably ignore that part.
And the y-axis for them is date,
but for us should be genres.
So I think the type is probably nominal,
cuz it's not ordinal because genres
don't have a specified order.
Where as in this one in the x-axis,
the months are ordinal.
And then the field
should be genre.
And then the color of
each of the cells is,
they're doing it by, actually,
Mark, let's do it both ways.
One, that's just the count, and
another that is the meta score.
Let's see if we can try both of them.
So let's try for the first one,
having it being type quantitative and
having it be the field, so
having it be aggregated by count.
And then the field being everything,
so this asterisk.
So basically you're just
aggregating each record of a movie.
And so we'll try that first, and
then I think after that I think
we should be able to change
the color to use the field.
Was the look up?
So maybe we can use the,
instead of aggregating by max or
by count maybe we can aggregate
by the median meta score.
>> Speaker 2: I was thinking
the actual IMDB votes is a proxy for
how popular something is.
>> Shirley Wu: Okay, so IMDB votes?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
IMDB votes would be how many votes,
seems like it would give you
an indicator of how popular a video is.
>> Shirley Wu: That's a great point,
so lets aggregate median,
let's still use median votes,
aggregate by the median,
but the field is the IMDB votes.
>> Speaker 2: And we can try both or
different things as far as ratings, but
I was looking at popularity over a month.
>> Shirley Wu: I think you're right in
that vote are going to be much more-
>> Speaker 2: Interesting.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah, or
much more reflective of popularity.
That's probably a really safe guess.
So let's do all of these together.
So let's get the data ready, and
in this case we're saying,
>> Shirley Wu: This
is by month, genre, popularity.
>> Shirley Wu: And
let's go through the data again.
>> Shirley Wu: And so for
each of them I want to return a date,
that is the release, released.
And then the y-axis is genre, so
again is d.genre.split to turn
that string into an array.
And then I want to just take
the first one, and then for
when we do the median votes,
let's just get that in there.
And that one would be just turning
the IMDB votes into an integer.
Does anyone see what I am doing wrong?
>> Shirley Wu: Let me see.
Okay, so that is what I am doing wrong.
So you can see that the votes
actually have a comma in between,
that's why I can't just
turn it into an integer.
Okay, so let me replace that comma.
>> Shirley Wu: How do I do that globally,
if I'm not using a regex?
>> Speaker 2: Your first argument, and
I think you can put regex as
your first argument to replace.
>> Shirley Wu: Should I just do that?
Okay, let me just do that then,
let's do a regex so that I can, ooh.
I'm missing a parens, okay.
>> Shirley Wu: So just a simple regex
to find the commas globally and
to replace my empty string.
And now we have the votes, awesome.
Okay, so let us,
>> Shirley Wu: Do the the Vega-Lite.
Let me pin this and
we'll do the Vega-Lite.
Okay, so we said for Vega-Lite, again,
pass in the data, values,
a month, genre, popularity.
And then the encoding, sorry,
the mark is rectangles,
and encoding we said we had x,
y, and color.
X we want it to be the field is
date, the type is ordinal.
And we said the time unit,
we want the ordinal to be aggregated
into months, so let's give it month.
And then y is,
the field is genre, and
the type is nominal.
And then the color,
we want it to be, the first one is
basically how many movies are in there.
So let's do an,
>> Shirley Wu: Let's see,
type is quantitative
because it's the number
of records, and aggregate is count.
And let's aggregate it by all of
the fields so we don't have to.
>> Shirley Wu: So actually,
look at that action.
This is really interesting.
So there's action movies pretty much in
all the months except for
October it seems.
And then action movies, apparently
they are 31 action movies in May.
That's ever in the last
two decades blockbusters,
apparently action movies I guess
there's a lot of them in May.
And there are some others like comedy,
this is great.
>> Shirley Wu: So that really does make
me really curious about the popularity.
So let me just copy and
paste this one over really quickly.
I'm going to move this down a little bit.
I'll pin this code and
then this should be as easy, hopefully,
as changing the color aggregation to
the median and the field to votes.
And hopefully that works.
I don't really know if I
agree with this color scheme.
[LAUGH] Yeah, look at that.
>> Speaker 2: That is a bit weird.
>> Shirley Wu: It is a bit weird.
So we have to train
ourselves a little bit.
>> Speaker 2: Blue and
black are not popular.
>> Shirley Wu: Less, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Radiating through turquoise.
[LAUGH] Yellow is really popular
in October, December, and January.
>> Shirley Wu: October,
December, and January.
So the thing that I want to be careful of
when we look at this is these are medians.
So but I think I-
>> Speaker 2: Can we try max?
>> Shirley Wu: Yes, we can-
>> Speaker 2: Just to see the difference.
>> Shirley Wu: We can see max.
And so the max is 2 million,
and it's July and action.
But I do want to be careful of the fact
that, so this is great because
this is a number of movies and
then this is the maximum number of votes.
So that means maybe some of them here are,
in July there are the most
popular movie was released.
But then there aren't as many action
movies that were made in July.
I think it's the combination of the two
would probably be quite meaningful.
>> Speaker 2: Technical question, as we're
changing these aggregation functions,
are these the ones that are defined by D3,
do you know which?
Cuz I know D3 has their account and
has their statistics library.
>> Shirley Wu: That's
a really great question.
Let's look at the documentation.
So in the aggregate,
>> Speaker 2: I
also noticed that the genre
is listed by alphabetically.
>> Shirley Wu: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: So
it's gonna lean towards a is action.
>> Shirley Wu: Yes, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Versus h, horror,
obviously there's more movies,
but because we're only grabbing the first
category it's gonna lean towards action.
>> Shirley Wu: Yes, and that's going
to be a design decision later.
I mean,
it's part of the data exploration too.
I think if we have more time we should
definitely be looking at all of them.
And once we look at all of them,
it's a design decision
of if we were to build
something around genres,
do we only build it with
just the first genre,
which like you said is biased
towards alphabetical, unfortunately.
Or do we take all of them and
somehow try and
reconcile the fact that there's
three genres per movie.
So that's also a design decision.
Yeah, so I think,
>> Shirley Wu: This is
quite interesting I think.
So again, it seems like action
is just watched a lot and
then action is also-
>> Speaker 2: Can we just each
over the genres and then create more data?
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah, so-
>> Speaker 2: To get all the genres
in there.
>> Shirley Wu: So you wanna do, basically
let's do this really quickly together.
>> Speaker 2: The genre array.
>> Shirley Wu: So I would do it as-
>> Speaker 2: Let's create lots of
different records for- Yeah, so for
the sake of data exploration,
let's do that.
And so what we want to do is within
that we want to for each of the genres.
>> Shirley Wu: So basically for this part,
>> Shirley Wu: We
want to iterate over that.
Whoops, map.
Return an array.
>> Shirley Wu: For each movie return
an array of its genres with date and
genre and
votes information in all of them.
And then it's going to return
an array of arrays, so flatten that.
And then hopefully we'll be able to see,
let's see, so now there's 570 records.
[LAUGH] And
then that should give us an updated
version that's a lot longer,
a little bit longer.
And it's true that action and
adventure is still most popular,
but we can see a little bit more of,
that's really interesting.
These crime and dramas that were released
in July have almost 2 million votes also.
Even though if you look at crime and
drama in July there weren't necessarily
that many movies that were released, but
they turned out to be extremely popular.
What I usually do after
all of this is I kind of
write down what I learned, and
then what I want to create my design,
what kind of themes I want
to center my design around.